Reword / improve authentication reference (#50003)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication.md

- lavalamp
- deads2k
- liggitt
title: Authentication
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->
This page provides an overview of authentication to Kubernetes and especially
authentication to the [Kubernetes API](/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

<!-- body -->
## Users in Kubernetes

All Kubernetes clusters have two categories of users: [ServiceAccounts](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) managed
by Kubernetes, and _normal users_.

In this regard, the core of Kubernetes does **not** have objects that represent normal user accounts.
In other words, you can't make an API call to add a normal user to a plain Kubernetes cluster
(if you [extend Kubernetes with custom APIs](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/),
then that is a different situation and you could use your own custom API for user management).

> Kubernetes is designed around an assumption that you have some mechanism to manage normal

Author: Well, there are other assumptions.

- an administrator manually issues certificates and distributes these, along with private keys,
  to the right people
- you use an automatic process for issuing certificates to your users
- you have a file, or cluster component, with a list of usernames and password verifiers
  (and there is a way to manage that file)

If you have a way to manage users, external to Kubernetes, then you use that external
means to add normal users.

In contrast, _service accounts_ are machine identities and are managed by the Kubernetes API.
They are either created automatically by the API server or manually through API calls; either
way, each ServiceAccount exists within a specific Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Namespace" term_id="namespace" >}}.
Every Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pod" term_id="pod" >}}
runs as the ServiceAccount explicitly assigned to it. If no ServiceAccount is specified,
the Pod automatically uses the default ServiceAccount in its namespace.
Because the kubelet provides a mechanism to make it
possible, the Pod can
[access](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/#assign-to-pod)

> a set of credentials that let the Pod act as that ServiceAccount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a set of credentials that allow the Pod to act as that ServiceAccount.
```

Although ServiceAccounts are often used with Pods, you can also use them for other forms
of machine identity or application identity that is associated with your cluster.

API requests are tied to either a normal user or a service account, or are treated
as [anonymous requests](#anonymous-requests). This means every client inside or outside your
cluster, from a human user typing `kubectl` on a workstation, to kubelets on nodes, to

> components of the control plane, **must** authenticate when making requests to the API server;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components of the control plane, **must** authenticate when making requests to the API server.
```

if clients do not authenticate, they are treated as an anonymous user.

Any kind of **authenticated** user can [impersonate](#user-impersonation) another user. This means that a ServiceAccount
can impersonate a normal user (if authorized to do so), and a normal user can impersonate a ServiceAccount. The special
user `system:masters` (a normal user identity that has special meaning to the authorization subsystem) can always
impersonate any other user.

## Authentication data

Kubernetes authenticates API requests using client certificates, bearer tokens, or an
authenticating proxy through [authentication plugins](#authentication-methods).
As HTTP requests are made to the API server, plugins attempt to associate the following
attributes with the client making the request:

Username
: a string which identifies the end user. Example username values might be `kube-admin` or `jane@example.com`.

Unique ID
: an optional opaque string value that identifies the end user and attempts to be more consistent and unique than username. For example: `9607a1a4-a742-4dda-9380-089d35a022b3`.

Groups

> : a set of strings, each of which indicates the user's membership in a named logical collection of users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: a set of strings, each indicating the user's membership in a named logical collection of users.
```

- lavalamp
- deads2k
- liggitt
title: Authentication
content_type: concept
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->
This page provides an overview of authentication to Kubernetes and especially
authentication to the [Kubernetes API](/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/).

<!-- body -->
## Users in Kubernetes

All Kubernetes clusters have two categories of users: [ServiceAccounts](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/) managed
by Kubernetes, and _normal users_.

In this regard, the core of Kubernetes does **not** have objects that represent normal user accounts.
In other words, you can't make an API call to add a normal user to a plain Kubernetes cluster
(if you [extend Kubernetes with custom APIs](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/),
then that is a different situation and you could use your own custom API for user management).

> Kubernetes is designed around an assumption that that you have some mechanism to manage normal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is designed around an assumption that you have some mechanism to manage normal
```

users, such as:

- you use an external user store that supports a mechanism such as [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/)
- an administrator manually issues certificates and distributes these, along with private keys,
  to the right people
- you use an automatic process for issuing certificates to your users
- you have a file, or cluster component, with a list of usernames and password verifiers
  (and there is a way to manage that file)

If you have a way to manage users, external to Kubernetes, then you use that external
means to add normal users.

In contrast, _service accounts_ are machine identities and are managed by the Kubernetes API.
They are either created automatically by the API server or manually through API calls; either
way, each ServiceAccount exists within a specific Kubernetes
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Namespace" term_id="namespace" >}}.
Every Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pod" term_id="pod" >}}

> runs as the ServiceAccount that you specify for that Pod (or the default, if you
> didn't specify any other). Because the kubelet provides a mechanism to make it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
runs as the ServiceAccount explicitly assigned to it. If no ServiceAccount is specified,
the Pod automatically uses the default ServiceAccount in its namespace.
Because the kubelet provides a mechanism to make it
```

possible, the Pod can
[access](/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/#assign-to-pod)
a set of credentials that let the Pod act as that ServiceAccount.

Although ServiceAccounts are often used with Pods, you can also use them for other forms
of machine identity or application identity that is associated with your cluster.

API requests are tied to either a normal user or a service account, or are treated
as [anonymous requests](#anonymous-requests). This means every client inside or outside your
cluster, from a human user typing `kubectl` on a workstation, to kubelets on nodes, to
components of the control plane, **must** authenticate when making requests to the API server;
if clients do not authenticate, they are treated as an anonymous user.

Any kind of **authenticated** user can [impersonate](#user-impersonation) another user. This means that a ServiceAccount
can impersonate a normal user (if authorized to do so), and a normal user can impersonate a ServiceAccount. The special
user `system:masters` (a normal user identity that has special meaning to the authorization subsystem) can always
impersonate any other user.

## Authentication data

> Kubernetes uses client certificates, bearer tokens, or an authenticating proxy to
> authenticate API requests through authentication [plugins](#authentication-methods).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes authenticates API requests using client certificates, bearer tokens, or an
authenticating proxy through [authentication plugins](#authentication-methods).
```

You must enable the Bootstrap Token Authenticator with the
`--enable-bootstrap-token-auth` flag on the API Server. You must enable

> the TokenCleaner controller via the `--controllers` command line argumnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the TokenCleaner controller via the `--controllers` command line argument
```
